# Region-specific function prediction
This repository contains MATLAB scripts and feature sets for "Towards region-specific propagation of protein functions" by D.C. Emily Koo and R. Bonneau.

## Scripts
demo_script.m - a demo script on a small dataset to make sure that the script runs correctly.

main_script_bind.m - driver script to run a gridsearch to estimate binding thetas

main_script_MF.m - driver script to run a gridsearch to estimate MF thetas

## Running
To run the demo, download data/demo_data.mat and the scripts/ directory while keeping the directory structure the same.

Run 'demo_script' in MATLAB in the main project directory. 

A 'results' directory will be created to store the output demo_output_last.mat file generated by the script. 

To run the scripts for binding and MF datasets, download all other data files and also an additional features data linked below.

You can run the scripts as is from the main project directory or duplicate/split them to run on a high performance cluster to speed up calculations. The script checks for and creates temporary files to allow multiple instances to be run without overwriting incomplete outputs. 

## Dependencies
The scripts should be run on MATLAB versions 2017 and above and requires the Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox.

## Data
data/demo_data.mat - contains all the necessary data to run the demo script. 

data/annotations_data.mat - contains annotations data for training/validation/test

data/binding_data.mat - contains indices and baseline thetas for binding GO terms

data/MF_data.mat - contains indices and baseline thetas for MF GO terms

features_data.mat - contains processed region/protein feature sets, region definitions and protein sequences used in the paper. Download .mat file [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1f16VuQJg5GOaCfb3MBZo5EB_DjAP0okY/view?usp=sharing).
